---
date: 2023-06-27T10:18:23-06:00
title: My (Ongoing) Thoughts on ChatGPT
slug: chatgpt
projects:
series:
tags:
draft: true
publishDate:
---

## June 27, 2023

I've just started writing material for this website {{< sidenote >}}It was [this article](/posts/2023-06-27_projects-intro), if you were wondering{{< /sidenote >}}, and to be honest I'm writing in a more formal style than I would usually write. Then I realized that it almost sounds like something ChatGPT would write. So I thought I would start a log of my current thoughts on ChatGPT; not an all-encompassing dissertation on the matter or anything, simply my current thoughts and how (if at all) I currently use it.

### Current Usage

{{< todo >}}Add ChatGPT stats (interactive chart shortcode??){{< /todo >}}
As of today, here's a chart of every message I've exchanged with ChatGPT ({{< todo >}}(Sidenote?) Link to a gist of the code I used or something (code snippets section??){{< /todo >}}):

As you can see, {{< todo >}}say something about data{{< /todo >}}. Up to this point, I've really only used ChatGPT as a novelty, or at most a lazier version of Google search. In this way, as many people on [r/ChatGPT](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPT) will tell you, I'm not using it to its fullest potential, and worse, I'm *falling behind*. So, if ChatGPT is so game-changing, why am I not using it?

### Reluctance, "Purity", and Technology

Honestly, a large part of it is because I'm scared. I know how big of a deal generative AI is, and I know that it will likely change the way we think about language, creativity, and communication itself. However, it feels *comfortable* to pretend that it might as well not exist, to tell myself that I can function as an employee, creator, and human living in society without the aid of a word generating machine. It feels *purer* somehow to say no, to tell myself that by abstaining I'm preventing myself from developing an inevitable dependence on something to which I can export my thinking, creativity, and whatever other intellectual chores that were previously responsibilities only I could fulfill as someone with a uniquely human mind.

But, on the other hand, this reluctance to forfeit some form of "purity" is naive because *we already do this*. Every day. That's what technology *is*, that's what it *does*. It augments our natural abilities by allowing us to take shortcuts, but in the process we lose control and agency.

If I want to learn something new today, I can head over to YouTube, or Wikipedia, or whatever, and I will likely find knowledge that is useful to me in that moment. But in order to be immediately useful, it has to be surface level, pre-digested. I'm trading the time it would have taken to gather that information myself for control over the ability to make my own interpretation. The same could be said for ChatGPT, social media, and the news, but the same could also be said for books, manufactured products, or even going to a restaurant.

In short, this is just another chapter in the cycle of technological advancement:
1. Breakthrough
2. Friction
3. Irreversible change

I'm interested to see how my perceptions of this new technology change over time, and the ripples it will cause in society as a whole.